Refactor the Query DSL section (#2904)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/query-dsl/term-vs-full-text.md

---
layout: default
title: Term-level vs. full-text queries
parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 20
---

> # Term-level vs. full-text queries

Reviewer: I really like that you split this out into its own topic! But it feels like it should be before full-text queries in the nav pane. Maybe give an overview statement, something like 'OpenSearch supports both full-text and term-level queries. The main difference between them is that term-level queries ...'

Author: Meant for it to be before full-text queries. Updated.

*Relevance* | Term-level queries simply return documents that match without sorting them based on the relevance score. They still calculate the relevance score, but this score is the same for all the documents that are returned. | Full-text queries calculate a relevance score for each match and sort the results by decreasing order of relevance.
*Use Case* | Use term-level queries when you want to match exact values such as numbers, dates, or tags, and don't need the matches to be sorted by relevance. | Use full-text queries to match text fields and sort by relevance after taking into account factors like casing and stemming variants.

OpenSearch uses the BM25 ranking algorithm to calculate relevance scores. To learn more, see [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25).
{: .note }

## Should I use a full-text or a term-level query?

> To see the difference between full-text and term-level queries in action, consider the following two examples that search for a specific text phrase. The complete works of Shakespeare are indexed in an OpenSearch cluster.

Author: I would probably leave as singular because the examples only show the difference in the documents that are returned.

In this example, you'll search the complete works of Shakespeare for the phrase "To be, or not to be" in the `text_entry` field. 

First, let's use a **term-level query** for this search:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "text_entry": "To be, or not to be"
    }
  }
}
```

The response contains no matches, indicated by zero `hits`:

```json
{
  "took" : 3,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 0,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  }
}
```

This is because the term “To be, or not to be” is searched literally in the inverted index, where only the analyzed values of the text fields are stored. Term-level queries aren’t suited for searching analyzed text fields because they often yield unexpected results. When working with text data, use term-level queries only for fields mapped as `keyword`.

Now let's search for the same phrase using a **full-text** query:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "text_entry": "To be, or not to be"
    }
  }
}
```

> The search query “To be, or not to be” is analyzed and tokenized into an array of tokens just like the `text_entry` field of the documents. The full-text query takes an intersection of tokens between our search query and the `text_entry` fields for all the documents, and then sorts the results by relevance scores:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The search query “To be, or not to be” is analyzed and tokenized into an array of tokens, just like the `text_entry` field of the documents. The full-text query takes an intersection of tokens between the search query and the `text_entry` fields for all the documents and then sorts the results by relevance score:
```

          "speech_number" : 19,
          "line_number" : "3.1.64",
          "speaker" : "HAMLET",
          "text_entry" : "To be, or not to be: that is the question:"
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "109930",
        "_score" : 14.883024,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 109931,
          "play_name" : "A Winters Tale",
          "speech_number" : 23,
          "line_number" : "4.4.153",
          "speaker" : "PERDITA",
          "text_entry" : "Not like a corse; or if, not to be buried,"
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "103117",
        "_score" : 14.782743,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 103118,
          "play_name" : "Twelfth Night",
          "speech_number" : 53,
          "line_number" : "1.3.95",
          "speaker" : "SIR ANDREW",
          "text_entry" : "will not be seen; or if she be, its four to one"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
...
```

For a list of all full-text queries, see [Full-text queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/full-text/index).

### Example: Exact term search

> If you want to search for an exact term like “HAMLET” in the `speaker` field and don't need the results to be sorted by relevance scores, a term-level query is more efficient:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to search for an exact term like “HAMLET” in the `speaker` field and don't need the results to be sorted by relevance score, a term-level query is more efficient:
```

        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "32700",
        "_score" : 4.2540946,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 32701,
          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 9,
          "line_number" : "1.2.66",
          "speaker" : "HAMLET",
          "text_entry" : "[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "32702",
        "_score" : 4.2540946,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 32703,
          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 11,
          "line_number" : "1.2.68",
          "speaker" : "HAMLET",
          "text_entry" : "Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "32709",
        "_score" : 4.2540946,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 32710,
          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 13,
          "line_number" : "1.2.75",
          "speaker" : "HAMLET",
          "text_entry" : "Ay, madam, it is common."
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
...
```

> The term-level queries are exact matches. So, if you search for “Hamlet”, you don’t get back any matches, because “HAMLET” is a keyword field and is stored in OpenSearch literally and not in an analyzed form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The term-level queries are exact matches. So if you search for “Hamlet”, you don’t receive any matches because “HAMLET” is a keyword field and is stored in OpenSearch literally and not in an analyzed form.
```

> The search query “HAMLET” is also searched literally. So, to get a match on this field, we need to enter the exact same characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The search query “HAMLET” is also searched literally. So to get a match on this field, we need to enter the exact same characters.
```
